Renew the documentation on the <dialog> element (#475)
KittyGiraudel/a11y-dialog: docs/further_reading.dialog_element.md

:::

## Remaining caveats

Here are some of the remaining issues with the HTML `<dialog>` element:

- Clicking outside the dialog does not close the dialog in some browsers such as Chrome.
- The `::backdrop` pseudo-element only shows when programatically opening the dialog, not when using the `open` attribute.
- Default styles are left to the browsers’ discretion and can be inconsistent.
- The [alert dialog pattern](advanced.alert_dialog.md) (`role="alertdialog"`) does not work with the `<dialog>` element.
- Using the `<dialog>` element still requires JavaScript (unlike `<details>` for instance).

:::note  
If you are aware of a downside or pitfall of the `<dialog>` element that was not mentioned here, please kindly [open an issue](https://github.com/KittyGiraudel/a11y-dialog/issues) so we can keep this document relevant and informative.  
:::

## Why a11y-dialog

This brings us to the reasons why one may stick to using a11y-dialog (or a similar library):

> - Not wanting to deal with browsers inconsistencies. It would be a bad reason to use a JavaScript library **if** the `<dialog>` element worked without JavaScript, which it doesn’t. So if one wants a dialog that looks the same everywhere, then a library like a11y-dialog remains a way to go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Needing cross-browser consistency. Browsers may apply different styles to the `<dialog>` element, or may handle user interactions slightly differently.
```

> - Having to support old browsers without support for the `<dialog>` element. I guess a polyfill might be better in a case like that, but also maybe not. Note that a11y-dialog v8 is geared towards modern browsers though.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Needing to support browsers that don't support the `<dialog>` element. While polyfills exist (such as [Google's polyfill on GitHub](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/dialog-polyfill)), they are larger than a11y-dialog and provide *fewer* features with *more* code. a11y-dialog takes care to be small and efficient, with a focus on supporting modern browsers.
```

Reviewer 2: If calling out the google polyfill, may be a good idea to specifically mention it does not have full support for all a11y features

Reviewer: Good point; thank you.

- Needing `alertdialog` support. There is no plan for the `<dialog>` element to support `role="alertdialog"` as of today, so if that’s a need, then a11y-dialog remains a good option.

> - Building more complex interactions relying on events. The native `<dialog>` element doesn’t come with an event API, so one cannot react to it being open or closed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Building interactions that rely on events. The native `<dialog>` supports [`cancel` and `close` events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLDialogElement#events), but their behaviors  aren't reliable. The `<dialog>` does not support an `open` event at all.
```

Not sure what the right level of information is here. In my testing, it appears that the dialog fires the `close` and `cancel` events when the user cancels a modal with `Escape`, which is confusing. Meanwhile, the dialog fires the `close` event only when using a button in `<form method="dialog">`.

[The spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/interactive-elements.html#the-dialog-element) has a section about how UAs may create an interface for firing `cancel` event, but nothing about how   that fires `close` at the same time.

I made [a codepen](https://codepen.io/mxmason/pen/oNMyVPO) to demo listening to the dialog's native events, and the quirks I mention here.

- Using a framework-specific wrapper around it, like React or Vue.js. It’s going to be easier to integrate with a11y-dialog than the native element.

> - Already relying on a11y-dialog in an existing project and not wanting to migrate to the `<dialog>` element. a11y-dialog is about 1.4Kb: it’s not like it’s inflating client-side code all that much.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Already relying on a11y-dialog in an existing project and not wanting to migrate to the `<dialog>` element. a11y-dialog is about 1.4Kb when minified and gzipped, and even smaller when compressed with brotli. It won't add significant bloat to your application.
```
